FX2024 Domain & Capabilities update / Optimize Cloud Usage domain (#643)
microsoft/finops-toolkit: docs/_docs/framework/capabilities/optimize/rate-optimization.md

---

<a name="definition"></a>

> **Rate otpimization is the practice of obtaining reduced rates on cloud services by committing to a certain level of usage or spend over a specific period.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rate otpimization is the practice of obtaining reduced rates on cloud services, often by committing to a certain level of usage or spend over a specific period.**
```

  - Consider implementing a consistent utilization and coverage monitoring system that covers all accounts.
- Establish a process for centralized purchasing of commitment-based offers, assigning responsibility to a dedicated team or individual.
- Consider programmatically aligning governance policies with commitments to prioritize SKUs and locations that are covered by reservations and aren't fully utilized when deploying new applications.

> - If you need to monitor the usage of commitment discounts outside of the Azure portal, consider deploying FinOps hubs which includes a [Commitment discount dashboard](https://microsoft.github.io/finops-toolkit/power-bi) which summarizes existing and potential savings from commitment discounts, like reservations and savings plans. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you need to monitor the usage of commitment discounts outside of the Azure portal, consider deploying FinOps hubs which includes a [Commitment discount dashboard](../../../../_reporting/power-bi/commitment-discounts.md) which summarizes existing and potential savings from commitment discounts, like reservations and savings plans. 
```

> - If you need to monitor the usage of commitment discounts outside of the Azure portal, consider deploying FinOps hubs which includes a [Commitment discount dashboard](../../../../_reporting/power-bi/commitment-discounts.md) which summarizes existing and potential savings from commitment discounts, like reservations and savings plans. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you need to monitor the usage of commitment discounts outside of the Azure portal, consider deploying FinOps hubs which includes a [Commitment discounts report](../../../../_reporting/power-bi/commitment-discounts.md) that summarizes existing and potential savings from commitment discounts, like reservations and savings plans.
```

<br>

## 🍎 Learn more at the FinOps Foundation

> This capability is a part of the FinOps Framework by the FinOps Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing cloud cost management and optimization. For more information about FinOps, including useful playbooks, training and certification programs, and more, see the [Rate Optimization](https://www.finops.org/framework/capabilities/rate-optimization/) article in the FinOps Framework documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This capability is a part of the FinOps Framework by the FinOps Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing cloud cost management and optimization. For more information about FinOps, including useful playbooks, training and certification programs, and more, see the [Rate optimization](https://www.finops.org/framework/capabilities/rate-optimization/) article in the FinOps Framework documentation.
```
